Integrate task resource (#237)
iterative/terraform-provider-iterative: docs/guides/getting-started.md

---
page_title: "Getting Started"
---

> # Getting Started

Author: > [_* `page_title` - The title of this document, which will display in the docs navigation. This is only required for documents in the `guides/` folder._](https://www.terraform.io/docs/registry/providers/docs.html#supported-attributes)

> ## Installing Terraform
> 
> See [this guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli#install-terraform) for more information.

Reviewer: 💅 Maybe just
```suggestion
Begin by [installing Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli#install-terraform) if needed.
```

Reviewer: What's the minimum version required?

Author: `^1.0`, although it might work with older versions.

Reviewer: Thanks for the info. The intention of my comments/question is to suggest things that may need clarifying in the docs. Feel free to update accordingly where appropriate.

Author: ```suggestion
Begin by [installing Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli#install-terraform) if needed. This provider has been tested with Terraform versions greater than 1.0, although earlier versions might work as well.
```

Author: ❓

> ## Declaring a Task

Reviewer: Defining? Creating?

Author: “Creating” doesn't look like an appropriate term for this kind of operation. “Defining” looks better, though.

```suggestion
## Defining a Task
```

> In an empty directory:

Author: Why on earth would the project root directory be empty? The http://vanilla-js.com repository without version control?

> In an empty directory:

Author: ```suggestion
In the project root directory:
```
...or something?

In an empty directory:

> 1. Create a directory named `shared` to store input data and output artifacts.

Reviewer: - Does it have to be `shared/` or is it an example?
- So you create an empty dir (any name) and then another dir inside called `shared/` ?

Reviewer: May be clearer to show a simple `tree` or consolidate these steps into a simple sentence like "Create a `shared/main.tf` config file inside your project with these contents:"

Author: > _Does it have to be `shared/` or is it an example?_

It's an example, matching the code snippet below.

> _So you create an empty dir (any name) and then another dir inside called `shared/` ?_

Yes, technically the nested directory can also have an arbitrary name, but we have to choose one to mention it on the code snippet.

Author: > _May be clearer to show a simple tree or consolidate these steps into a simple sentence like "Create a shared/main.tf config file inside your project with these contents:"_

The `main.tf` file should be outside of the `shared` directory. That's the point of creating a directory just for transferring data.

```
project/
├─ shared/
│  └─ ···
└─ main.tf
```

Reviewer: The tree is clearer 👍 

`project/` = `directory/` in the samples? In general I'd just try to make the samples match the text as clearly as possible. Thanks

Author: No, `project/shared/` is the value of the `directory` argument in the samples. There is no (or there shoulnd't be, at least) such thing as `directory/` in the samples.

Author: If you wish, we can remove the `path.root` name just to keep things simple.
````
.
├─ shared/
│  └─ ···
└─ main.tf
```

Author: Committed

2. Create a file named `main.tf` with the following contents:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    iterative = {
      source  = "iterative/iterative"
    }
  }
}

provider "iterative" {}

resource "iterative_task" "example" {
  name  = "example"

>   cloud = "aws" # or any of: gcp, az, k8s

Author: Do we really want to have two abbrevied provider names and two unabbrevieated ones? I'm tempted to add aliases so the old resources accept both. 🤷🏼‍♂️

>   cloud = "aws" # or any of: gcp, az, k8s

Reviewer 2: That can work also, but what we cant have is one resource calling a complete different thing

>   directory = "${path.root}/directory"

Author: Note that the `directory` will also be uploaded before the task starts. It's not just for `results` as that name would imply. Still, it may work for this use case and it's better than the `directory` _lapalissade_.

  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    echo "Hello World!" > greeting.txt
  END
}
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

-> **Note**: The `script` argument can take anny string, including a [heredoc](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/expressions/strings.html#heredoc-strings) or the contents of a file returned by the [`file`](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/functions/file.html) function.

```

## Initializing Terraform

```console
$ terraform init
```

This command will:

1. Download and install the Iterative Provider.
2. Initialize Terraform in the current directory.

> ~> **Note** None of the subsequent commands will work without first setting some [authentication environment variables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs#authentication)

Reviewer: Copy edit
```suggestion
> **Note**: None of the subsequent commands will work without first setting [authentication environment variables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs#authentication).
```

Author: Is there any good reason for removing callouts in favor of block quotes? 🤔 
https://www.terraform.io/docs/registry/providers/docs.html#callouts

Reviewer: I think `~>` and `->` render exactly like that right? Whereas `>` turns into a block quote (appropriate for notes IMO). It's what we usually do in product docs but this is stylistic so completely up to you.

Author: It's an special syntax for the provider documentation. You can preview how it would look here: https://registry.terraform.io/tools/doc-preview

Reviewer: Ah very cool! I had no idea. Then no need to use block quotes but there are also small copy edits in some of my suggestions. Thanks

Author: ```suggestion
~> **Note:** None of the subsequent commands will work without first setting some [authentication environment variables](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs#authentication).
```

## Launching Tasks

```console
$ terraform apply
···
```

This command will:

1. Create all the required cloud resources.

> 2. Upload the specified results `directory` to the cloud.

Author: That's why I don't believe “results” to be the best name. Why in the earth would users **upload** _results_ anywhere?

Author: @casperdcl has, in the documentation review, but I would prefer a more neutral name.

Reviewer 2: Totally agree... a task does not need to have results per se

Reviewer 3: I think you've changed to "shared" (rather than "results" or "directory") directory? lgtm.

> 2. Upload the specified shared `directory` to the cloud.

Reviewer: So is the directory `shared/` or `directory/` ?

Reviewer: OK I see this now:

```hcl
directory = "${path.root}/shared"
```

So it's just the intro where both "empty directory" and `shared/` are mentioned that make this somewhat confusing.

Author: Perhaps `directory` without tha backticks would make it clearer?

Reviewer: The confusion is that you say "given `directory`" but `directory` is not given directly, it's built from the cwd + `shared/`.

Reviewer: So "given directory" sounds like you may be referring to just `shared/`.

Reviewer: Maybe it's not such a big deal but if it's possible to simplify and clarify that would be great.

Author: `directory` is the argument name, and should be either empty/undefined (disabled) or a valid path to a directory, which will be pushed to the cloud on `apply` and pulled from the cloud on `destroy`

Author: `shared/` is just an example name, but `directory` can be a path to any directory in your local system.

Reviewer 4: `directory` would be your repo for example?

Author: Yes, if you set `directory` to the path of your repository root, any command in the `script` will have the same behavior as locally.

Reviewer: Right so I mean clarify in the doc, not just in this conversation :) as you can see it can be confusing.

Author: Added to https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/pull/237#issue-1048177975

3. Launch the task `script`.

## Viewing Task Statuses

```console
$ terraform refresh && terraform show
resource "iterative_task" "example" {
  ···
}
```

This command will:

1. Query the task status from the cloud.
2. Display the task status.

## Deleting Tasks

```console
terraform destroy
```

This command will:

> 1. Download the specified shared `directory` from the cloud.

Reviewer: `shared/` or `directory/` ?

Author: `shared` is the example name of the directory, and `directory` is the name of the attribute.

2. Delete all the created cloud resources.

## Viewing Task Results

> In the example above, the specified shared `directory` should contain a file named `greeting.txt` containing the text `Hello, World!`

Reviewer: - "In the example above" -> "After deleting the task" ?
- `shared/` or `directory/` ?
- "contain a file named `greeting.txt` ~~containing~~ **with** the text"

Author: ```suggestion
After running `terraform destroy`, the `shared` directory should contain a file named `greeting.txt` with the text `Hello, World!`
```
